
[c3]: http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.04431

# Cross-matching astronomical catalogs

Cross-matching is the process of relating objects between two (or more) astronomical catalogs.
Considering that both catalogs contain references of objects from the same region of the sky,
the goal is to identify which are the references pointing to the same objects.
For those used to relational databases jargon, cross-match is a 'join' process based on
objects physical parameters.

For a proper explanation, let us consider two astronomical catalogs -- where rows contain properties of  astronomical objects, columns organize those properties and each (real) astronomical object can be present no more than once in each catalog. To picture a very simple situation, without loosing in generality, ee can think of such catalogs as being the products of optical and x-ray observations of a certain region of the sky. It it is expected -- say the *null-hypothesis* -- that not all but some of the objects are in both catalogs. Notice, though, that the catalogs -- as data structures -- are not required to share any other structural property like number or order of rows and columns. This is a typical scenario astronomers handle a cross-matching.

The process of finding the objects shared by both catalogs is called cross-matching. In extra-galactic astronomy, in practice the objects -- galaxies, QSOs -- do not move; which brings their position in the sky to be used as an identifier. The very basic parameters to be used for the cross-matching is then Right Ascension and Declination: at each of those catalogs, the objects that are in the same position of the sky are said to be the same. The result of this process is a *cross-matched* catalog, containing the matched objects and the merge of columns (*i.e.*, properties) from both catalogs.

Although it looks like a simple subject, cross-matching is a long-standing issue in astronomy. And it is quite easy to see that once we realize how observational effects (*e.g.*, astronomical seeing) affect, for instance, an object's position measurement. The uncertainties added to the measurements cause the same object to show up slightly different positions in each catalog; given that we have to match not exact values, but coordinates that should match within a tolerance value $\epsilon$ -- also called *error radius*  or *search radius*. Intrinsic astrophysical effects can also cause the same astronomical object not to match between catalogs of different wavebands, for example, Radio Lobes generated by an Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) can cause a mismatch between a radio and an optical catalogs.

In practice, the basic idea on cross-matching is to associate the closest sources within a search radius. Which is called a *pure positional* method. Other association methods can be found in the literature, *maximum likelihood* [SeS92]_ and *bayesian statistics* [BeS08]_.

In this work the maximum likelihood estimator (MLE), great circle (GC) and nearest neighbout (NN)
were implemented.

.. [SeS92] "*On the likelihood ratio for source identification*", W. Sutherland and W. Saunders, MNRAS, 1992
.. [BeS08] "*Probabilistic Cross Identification of Astronomical Sources*", T. Budavari and A. Szalay, ApJ, 2008
